


1. TensorFlow: This library was developed by Google in collaboration with the Brain Team. It is an opensource library used for high-level computations. It is also used in machine learning and deep learning
algorithms. It contains a large number of tensor operations. Researchers also use this Python library to
solve complex computations in Mathematics and Physics.

2. Matplotlib: This library is responsible for plotting numerical data. And that’s why it is used in data
analysis. It is also an open-source library and plots high-defined figures like pie charts, histograms,
scatterplots, graphs, etc.

3. Pandas: Pandas are an important library for data scientists. It is an open-source machine learning
library that provides flexible high-level data structures and a variety of analysis tools. It eases data
analysis, data manipulation, and cleaning of data. Pandas support operations like Sorting, Re-indexing,
Iteration, Concatenation, Conversion of data, Visualizations, Aggregations, etc

4. Numpy: The name “Numpy” stands for “Numerical Python”. It is the commonly used library. It is a
popular machine learning library that supports large matrices and multi-dimensional data. It consists of
in-built mathematical functions for easy computations. Even libraries like TensorFlow use Numpy
internally to perform several operations on tensors. Array Interface is one of the key features of this
library.

5. SciPy: The name “SciPy” stands for “Scientific Python”. It is an open-source library used for high-level
scientific computations. This library is built over an extension of Numpy. It works with Numpy to handle
complex computations. While Numpy allows sorting and indexing of array data, the numerical data code
is stored in SciPy. It is also widely used by application developers and engineers.

6. Scrapy: It is an open-source library that is used for extracting data from websites. It provides very fast
web crawling and high-level screen scraping. It can also be used for data mining and automated testing
of data.

7. Scikit-learn: It is a famous Python library to work with complex data. Scikit-learn is an open-source
library that supports machine learning. It supports variously supervised and unsupervised algorithms like
linear regression, classification, clustering, etc. This library works in association with Numpy and SciPy.

8. PyGame: This library provides an easy interface to the Standard Directmedia Library (SDL) platformindependent graphics, audio, and input libraries. It is used for developing video games using computer
graphics and audio libraries along with Python programming language.

9. PyTorch: PyTorch is the largest machine learning library that optimizes tensor computations. It has rich
APIs to perform tensor computations with strong GPU acceleration. It also helps to solve application
issues related to neural networks.

10. PyBrain: The name “PyBrain” stands for Python Based Reinforcement Learning, Artificial Intelligence,
and Neural Networks library. It is an open-source library built for beginners in the field of Machine
Learning. It provides fast and easy-to-use algorithms for machine learning tasks. It is so flexible and
easily understandable and that’s why is really helpful for developers that are new in research fields.